Chalkwise is an app built by college students, for college students. Everyone has been in a situation where they are looking for a group to study with, but don’t have the opportunities to find a group. Chalkwise is built specifically for college students in large lectures that have trouble finding people to study with. Our biggest feedback that we received was about our incumbents. There are no direct competitors, but we learned that there are GroupMe groups made specifically for this issue. We plan to focus our efforts on making the process seamless with features that will allow users to find people based on their majors and interests. This is our main solution in order to outperform GroupMe. Social anxiety is a big issue in College students. A study from Penn State found that “Clinician Assessed Social Anxiety” in students rose from around 18%, in 2021, to around 23%, in 2022, (Kilcullen, n.d.). Chalkwise will help students with social anxiety. College students who struggle with social anxiety, and students who are not able to find groups in person will be our primary users. Chalkwise provides a stress-free, no-nonsense environment for students to create a community of studiers. Currently students need to go out of their way to either find groups in person or by joining a GroupMe for a specific course. Chalkwise takes out the hassle of finding people who do not want to study and makes it easier to connect with like minded students.

Our initial feature set is ambitious, yet achievable. Our main features include a “Game-fied” swiping mechanic to connect with students, filters for certain courses (CRN), UIUC email confirmation to confirm they are currently enrolled students, a “best days to meet” tag, and a DM system that allows users to communicate with their new study buddies. If we could implement these features, we would also like to add interest tags and an option to add matches on LinkedIn. We are leaving out a Calendar that shows specific availability on the profile and a photo of the person when users are swiping. We are leaving out the calendar feature for safety and comfort of the users, and the profile picture will only show when users are matched so that it discourages users from judging potential studymates by looks.

Our app would use tools such as Lovable, Supabase, and Claude API. We can use Lovable to create the website and add the main features. Supabase can be used to implement the email authentication aspect of our app and to help store user data. Finally, Claude API can be used to help pair students into groups. We could encounter security risks when users sign up for our app with their emails. To address this, we can restrict users by only allowing Illinois emails and encrypting sensitive data, like passwords. We can also store limited personal data for each user. We will also need certain APIs. We would need a database or backend to store user data and an Authenticator API. If possible or if we deem it necessary, we could also have a Course Catalog API so students can select the sources they are taking directly from that. To improve matching, we could also use Google Analytics. 

Our app has direct network effects and is reliant on them. The more users we have, more study groups can be formed and users have a larger selection of people/groups to choose from. Our current competitors include GroupMe, the UIUC Discord, and Reddit. GroupMe has lots of established groups, but most of them are RSO-focused. Both the UIUC Discord and Reddit can be difficult to navigate, and require lots of time searching through users to find people to study with. We can advertise at larger lecture halls, such as Foellinger, Lincoln, and the CIF and hand out flyers for our app. We could also ask professors if we can advertise our app during class, or hang up flyers in their classroom and around campus.

Chalkwise will use three ways to find Measured Satisfaction with Potential Matches: Users should be able to anonymously rate potential partners after a group chat, indicating their willingness to work with them in the future. These ratings will inform the matchmaking algorithm about the historical strength of user compatibility. User Satisfaction: Track overall user satisfaction with the various partners they meet through the application. User Retention and Engagement: Monitor how frequently users continue to use the app, including their participation in various group chat options. The goal is for consistent usage as students find and build relationships to achieve their academic goals. The project's primary vulnerability, or "failure," stems from a potential lack of sufficient membership and inadequate data utilized in the application. A significant challenge lies in the difficulty of reliably identifying key groups or information sources. Given the large population involved, and the application's reliance on network effects, a low number of users would severely diminish Chalkwise’s effectiveness.